for over 35 years video games have
played a vital role throughout our
history from pac-man to Mario to Sonic
the Hedgehog the industry has managed to
produce a legacy that runs deep into our
culture as you'll see in this series the
journey from point A to point B is not
as clear-cut as one would expect and
along the way there are many hardships
rivalries and cutthroat industry tactics
that shape the industry into what it is
today but in order to tell us
interesting saga we must go back and
start at the beginning
back in 1961 computers were just
emerging as new technology and one of
the few places you could even find one
was at the MIT university during that
same year a student by the name of Steve
Russell started work on a computer
program that was revolutionary for its
time what he ended up creating was a
video game called space war now the game
shown here is not an exact replica of
the original but it's pretty darn close
space war is a two-player game that
allows each player to take control of a
tiny spaceship and it becomes your
mission to destroy the other player by
shooting at him before he can destroy
you hell yeah
but aside from avoiding the other
players attacks you also have to worry
about this small dot in the center of
the screen which represents the Sun and
if you accidentally touch it you die the
Sun also has its own gravitational pull
so if you travel too close to it it'll
get sucked in and killed what a bitch
now it is possible to use the
gravitational pull to your advantage by
slingshotting your shots around the Sun
just make sure you don't accidentally
kill yourself
no brother one of the cool aspects about
this game is that whenever you're on the
verge of being killed or destroyed all
you have to do is press the hyperdrive
button and your ship will disappear from
the screen all right time to throw this
thing into hyperdrive
but before warm that once you disappear
you can randomly reappear anywhere on
the screen even right next to the Sun
good fire bow
how come this never happens to Captain
Kirk the game space war was an instant
hit around campus but sadly Steve
wouldn't be able to make a dime off his
invention since space war just couldn't
be marketed at the time computers like
this one cost over a hundred and fifty
thousand dollars and the only place you
could find them bright universities and
since space war was only playable on
these large computers the odds of
actually playing this game back then
were about a million to one
Steve had taken the idea of video games
as far as it could go and the concept of
video gaming had to wait almost nine
years until a man by the name of Nolan
Bushnell could take the concept to the
next level while attending college no
one had become a huge fan of the game
space war and instantly realize the
potential of what computer games could
become after graduating no one set off
to create a game like space war that he
could make money off of he first spent
many months building a prototype of the
game that would work on a TV rather than
a computer he then took the TV and built
the fiberglass cabinet around it and
place the game's controls just below the
screen even though the product was oddly
shaped no one had just created the very
first coin-operated video game and he
named it computer space now believe it
or not there are actually two different
versions of computer space that were
made the one player and the two player
game the two player games were painted
green and the one player only games were
painted yellow red blue and Bob Uecker
now dropping a quarter into this machine
would buy you 90 seconds of play time in
a one player game you take control of a
spaceship and it's your job to fly on
the screen and destroy as many alien
spaceships as you can before the timer
runs out fire torpedoes
hell yeah but the two-player game on the
other hand becomes an all-out dogfight
between you and the second player just
like in space war the objective is to
kill the other guy as many times as
possible but this time a point system
has been added to the game just so you
can keep track of how many times you
beat the crap out of the other player
once the time runs out it's time to
tally up your score okay let's see here
my score is two and the other player has
64 yes yes of course brooch Oh sadly the
game computer space never caught on and
it was most likely caused by the game's
complicated controls since each ship had
to be controlled by a set four buttons
it was just a little bit too much for
people to absorb if Nolan learned
anything from this experience it was
that he would have to keep things simple
if he wanted a game to catch on a few
months later on May 24th 1972 aspiration
would strike again when Nolan decided to
attend a private demonstration of Magna
box's newest product and that product
was called the Magnavox Odyssey which
was the very first home video game
system coming up in part two the
Magnavox Odyssey
you